

 Fox News Media   Fox News Media Fox Business Fox Nation Fox News Audio Fox Weather Outkick Books Fox News U.S. Politics World Opinion Media Entertainment Sports Lifestyle Video AI More Expand / Collapse search Login Watch TV DONALD TRUMP Trump assassination attempt: Newly uncovered footage shows figure on roof seconds before gunfire The video shows what appears to be Thomas Matthew Crooks getting into position to fire at former President Trump By Michael Dorgan Fox News Published August 22, 2024 8:51am EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email  Trump assassination attempt bodycam footage shows Crooks on roof before deadly shooting Butler Township, Pennsylvania bodycam footage released Aug. 8, 2024, appears to show attempted Trump assassin Thomas Matthew Crooks on the building where he fired off his shots.  A deep dive into the recently released bodycam footage of the attempted assassination of former President Trump appears to show the shooting suspect walking on top of a roof just minutes before he managed to fire off his deadly rounds at the campaign rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, last month.  The newly unearthed footage sheds further light on the assassination attempt and the seconds leading up to the July 13 shooting.  When stabilized and zoomed in, one of the bodycam clips released by Butler Township Police Department shows a shadowy figure emerging on top of the American Glass Research (AGR) complex building at 6:08 p.m.   ATTEMPTED TRUMP ASSASSIN SEEN WALKING AROUND PENNSYLVANIA RALLY HOURS BEFORE OPENING FIRE   Trump after being shot, Thomas Matthew Crooks New video appears to show Thomas Matthew Crooks, top right, on a roof before his attempted assassination attempt on former President Donald Trump, left. (Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images, left, Iron Clad USA, middle, Butler Township Police Department, to right, Fox News, bottom right. ) The police officer whose bodycam captures the figure is walking in a green area on the east side of the AGR complex, near the water tower, when his body camera captures who is believed to be Thomas Matthew Crooks, 20, roof-hopping and making his way to the southernmost structure of the complex.  Another figure, likely a police officer, can be seen walking on the ground in the opposite direction of Crooks and appears unaware that the shooter is on the roof, the footage shows.   In the intervening minutes, the police officer can be seen communicating with other officers and then patrolling the adjoining car park. His bodycam does not have sound.   As the figure on the roof disappears again, the officer\'92s bodycam footage strikes 6:09 p.m., meaning Crooks took about two and a half minutes to set himself up and shoot at Trump and the other attendees, based on timestamps from other police bodycam footage.   Buildings that are adjacent to The Butler Farm Show, site of a campaign rally for Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump, The AGR Building where Thomas Matthew Crooks fired his shots. (AP Photo/Gene J. Puskar) The FBI has previously stated that Crooks accessed the roof of a building by climbing up HVAC equipment and piping. Crooks then traversed multiple rooftops before he found his shooting position on top of a building about 150 yards from where the former president spoke at his rally.  Investigators have determined that Crooks purchased a ladder hours prior to the assassination attempt, but he left it at his residence in Bethel Park and did not use the ladder at the rally. No ladder was found at the scene.   The newly uncovered video corroborates Crooks' timeline in a video by James Copenhaver, one of the victims shot. That video also shows a figure maneuvering on the rooftop.   Crooks got off eight shots while trying to take out Trump, according to a preliminary report released by Rep. Clay Higgins, R-La., last week.  TRUMP SHOOTING: TIMELINE OF ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW GUNMAN EVADED SECURITY   A still image from James Copenhaver's video A new video from James Copenhaver, one of the victims critically wounded in a July 13 assassination attempt against former President Trump, shows a figure moving across a rooftop just minutes before gunfire rang out at Trump's rally in Butler, Pennsylvania. (James Copenhaver) One bullet grazed Trump\'92s right ear, while firefighter Corey Comperatore was fatally struck. Rally-goers James Copenhaver and David Dutch were also shot and injured.  Another shot was fired by a Butler SWAT operator from the ground, about 100 yards away from the AGR building. The shot hit Crooks\'92 rifle stock and fragged his face and shoulder area due to the stock breaking up, Higgins said.  Another shot was fired by the southern Secret Service counter-sniper team, which entered Crooks' left mouth area and exited the right ear area.  Chilling new video has also just been released showing Crooks casually walking through a crowd in Butler, Pennsylvania, nearly two hours before the shooting.   Shooter Crooks walking and Trump after being shot Chilling new video has been released showing Thomas Matthew Crooks casually walking through a crowd in Butler, Pennsylvania, nearly two hours before he opened fire on former President Trump and attendees at a campaign rally. (Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images, main, and Iron Clad USA, inset.) The short clip, released by the clothing company Iron Clad USA, shows Crooks at 4:26 p.m. dressed in shorts and a "Demolitia" T-shirt walking past a line of vendors selling Trump merchandise ahead of the July 13 rally, not carrying anything. He was wearing the same T-shirt when he opened fire on Trump.  CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP   Text messages sent by local law enforcement responsible for monitoring former President Trump's Pennsylvania flagged Crooks to colleagues as suspicious at least 90 minutes before he opened fire.   The messages, obtained by Fox News Digital via Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, who obtained them from the Beaver County Emergency Services Unit, showed that officers flagged Crooks after he was spotted using a range finder \'96 but did not approach him.  Fox News\'92 Bonny Chu and Audrey Conklin contributed to this report.    Michael Dorgan is a writer for Fox News Digital and Fox Business.  You can send tips to michael.dorgan@fox.com and follow him on Twitter @M_Dorgan.   True Crime True Crime The hottest stories ripped from the headlines, from crime to courts, legal and scandal.  Arrives Weekly By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe   U.S. Crime Military Education Terror Immigration Economy Personal Freedoms Fox News Investigates Digital Originals Politics Executive Senate House Judiciary Foreign Policy Polls Elections World U.N. Conflicts Terrorism Disasters Global Economy Environment Religion Scandals Opinion Media FOX Nation Coverage Entertainment Celebrity News Movies TV News Music News Style News Entertainment Video Sports NFL College Football MLB NBA NHL Golf Tennis Soccer UFC WWE Lifestyle Health Food & Drink Auto Travel & Outdoors Real Estate House & Home Fitness & Well-being Style & Beauty Family Faith FOX Business Personal Finance Economy Markets Watchlist Lifestyle Real Estate Tech Science & Tech Air & Space Security Innovation Video Games Military Tech Planet Earth Wild Nature Watch Live FOX News Shows Programming Schedule On Air Personalities Full Episodes Show Clips News Clips About Contact Us Careers Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Media Relations Corporate Information Compliance Apps & Products FOX News Go FOX Weather FOX Nation FOX News Shop FOX News Radio Outkick Newsletters Podcasts Games Daily Crossword Puzzle Crazy Crystals Match 3 Game Word Scramble Mini Crossword Puzzle Stack and Match Block Puzzle 5 Across the Letter Word Game Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Flipboard LinkedIn Slack RSS Newsletters Spotify iHeartRadio Fox News Updated Terms of UseNew Privacy PolicyYour Privacy ChoicesClosed Caption PolicyHelpContact UsAccessibility Statement This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. \'a92024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper. }